refact: update installing-beagle (#648)
ZupIT/beagle-docs: content/en/android/installing-beagle.md

<manifest xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android"
    package="com.example.beagleexamples">

    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.INTERNET" />

    <application
        android:name=".AppApplication"

        ..
```

Now you're ready to start using Beagle! To verify if the configuration is correct, you can simulate a Server-Driven screen to make the following test.

{{% alert color="warning" %}}
To do server-driven requisitons to a backend it's mandatory to customize the network layer. To know how, click here!
{{% /alert%}}

## **Other Customizations**
 * Action - you can create custom actions to be executed by your widgets according user intereaction
 * Navigation Animation - you can customize Beagle screen navigation animations
 * Beagle Activity - you can customize the activity that will be displayed when a server-driven screen was called
 * Network Client - you can customize the network client to cunfigure the way Beagle will make requests
 * Cache - you can customize the cache  to save the server-driven screens
 * Loading and errors treatment - you can customize the error treatment and loading of server-driven screens

>  * Proguard - you can obfuscate your code using proguard, it's necessary a configuration to not obfuscate some class that could be serialized and deserialized by Beagle

Reviewer: I think this text is not reflecting well the proguard in beagle, because by default all settings are already pre-applied, only if the user wants additional customizations.

---
title: Installing Beagle
weight: 120
description: In this section, you'll learn how to create an Android project with Beagle
---
**Topics covered**

> - Create a Android project from scratch

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create an Android project from scratch
```

> - Add Beagle on your project (can be in a existing project)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add Beagle on your project (can be in an existing project)
```

> - Add Beagle on your project (can be in an existing project)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Add Beagle in your project (can be in an existing project)
```

- Configure Beagle
- Possible customizations

**Requirements:**
 - Android Studio
 - minSdkVersion: 19+
 - JDK 8+ language
 - Kotlin 1.3+

## Starting an Android project

For this example, we'll use Android Studio IDE. If you haven't installed it yet, just access the documentation [**official Android website** ](https://developer.android.com/studio?hl=us-en) and follow the instructions.   
  

> After you have installed the program, follow the steps below:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After you have installed Android Studio, follow the steps below:
```

**Step 1: Open Android Studio and click on Start a new Android Studio project**

{{< figure src="/shared/newandroidproject.png">}}

**Step 2: Choose the Empty Activity option and click on next**. 

{{< figure src="/shared/androidprojecttemplate.png">}}

**Step 3️: On this page, there is some important information:**

> * Inform your project's name. On this example, we'll call `BeagleApp`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Inform your project's name. On this example, we'll call it `BeagleApp`.
```

* Choose which language you'll use. For Beagle, you should go with `Kotlin`.
* Choose **SDK minimum 19 or above**, because a lower SDK won't be compatible. 
* Define a **package** and a **Save location** according to your preference. 
* Click on **Next**.

{{< figure src="/shared/configureandroidproject.png">}}

> **Step 4️: After you made the previous configurations, Android will take some time to build the project because it will be synchronizing all the dependencies to initialize the project.**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Step 4️: After the previous configurations, Android will take some time to build the project since it will synchronize all dependencies to initialize this project.**
```

Once the initialization is done, you will see this page: 

{{< figure src="/shared/mainactivity.png">}}

##  Add Beagle on your project 

> **Step 1: Configure the dependencies**

Reviewer 2: I suggest adding that the information bellow needs to be placed inside the build.gradle file

Author: Thanks for the suggestion, I'll do this!

> You have to adjust your repository's dependencies to receive Beagle. To do so, use the following configuration to **download Beagle's library.**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You must add `mavenCentral()` in the *allprojects repository's dependencies* to set the resource for Beagle. To do so, use the following configuration to **download Beagle's library.**
```

```kotlin
allprojects {
    repositories {
        google()
        mavenCentral()
    }
}
```

{{% alert color="warning" %}}
The above configuration must be added to `allprojects{}`
{{% /alert %}}

**Step 2: Include plugins**

> After you have completed the first configuration, now you need to include the `kapt` and Beagle's plugin as dependencies on your dependency manager, check out the example below:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now you need to include the `kapt` and `Beagle's` plugin on your dependency manager, check out the example below:
```

The current release version of Beagle is: [![Maven Central](https://img.shields.io/maven-central/v/br.com.zup.beagle/android)](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/br.com.zup.beagle/android)

```kotlin
plugins {
	id 'kotlin-kapt'
}

android {
    kotlinOptions {
        jvmTarget = JavaVersion.VERSION_1_8
    }
}

ext.beagle_version = "${beagle_version}"

dependencies {
    implementation "br.com.zup.beagle:android:$beagle_version"
    kapt "br.com.zup.beagle:android-processor:$beagle_version"
}
```

Insert Beagle's release version to replace ${beagle.version}`, this is necessary to put Beagle's version highlighted in a blue badge above, without the **v character**.

For example: undefined-`ext.beagle.version = "1.8.0"`

{{% alert color="warning" %}}

> Remember to always check if you're using the latest version of Beagle. To see this information, you just have to pass your mouse above the version number. After that, sync your machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remember to always check if you're using the latest version of Beagle. To see this information, you just have to pass your cursor above the version number. After that, sync your project.
```

```kotlin
@BeagleComponent
class AppBeagleConfig : BeagleConfig {
    override val environment: Environment get() = Environment.DEBUG
    override val baseUrl: String get() = "https://myapp.server.com"
    override val isLoggingEnabled: Boolean = true
    override val cache: Cache = Cache(
        enabled = false,
        maxAge = 300,
        size = 15
    )
}
```

| **Attribute** | **Type** | **Definition** |
| :----------- | :------ | :------ |
| environment | Environment | Attribute responsible for informing Beagle about the current build status of the application. |
| baseUrl | String | Informs the base URL used in Beagle in the application. If you are using the emulator, [**check here to define this attribute**](https://developer.android.com/studio/run/emulator-networking.html#networkaddresses)  |
| isLoggingEnabled | Boolean | Attribute that enables or disables all logs that Beagle generates.|
| cache	| Cache	| Object responsible for managing the cache of Beagle requests. |

{{% alert color="warning" %}}
Make sure to note your class configuration with `BeagleComponent`, because Beagle expect them to have empty constructors.
{{% /alert %}}

**Step 2: Create a BeagleSetup**

> After you have created the class shown in the previous step and annotated with @BeagleComponent, just build your project (press CTRL + F9) and Beagle will automatically create a BeagleSetup class, see the image below:

Reviewer 2: I suggest showing how to build the project through menu, in Android Studio. Sometimes, hotkeys don't work, specially depending on the OS

Author: Thanks for the suggestion, I'll do this!

{{< figure src="/shared/beaglesetup.png">}}

**Step 3: Create the Application class**

At this moment, you should create a `Kotlin class` that extends the `Application class`. For this example, the name will be `AppApplication`.

This class should be named as `BeagleSetup().init(this)` on `onCreate` method, according to the list below:

```kotlin
class AppApplication: Application() {

    override fun onCreate() {
        super.onCreate()

        BeagleSetup().init(this)
    }
}
```

**Step 4: Update your Android Manifest.xml**

Finally, you have to update your `AndroidManifest.xml` again and define the `AppApplication` created as an application's initialization file. See the example below: 

```markup
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<manifest xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android"
    package="com.example.beagleexamples">

    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.INTERNET" />

    <application
        android:name=".AppApplication"

> 

Reviewer: As in the past we had to teach users to put this parameter in their project for local testing, I suggest adding it to the manifest along with a brief description.
```suggestion
        android:usesCleartextTraffic="true"
```

        ..
```

Now you're ready to start using Beagle! To verify if the configuration is correct, you can simulate a Server-Driven screen to make the following test.

{{% alert color="warning" %}}
To do server-driven requisitons to a backend it's mandatory to customize the network layer. To know how, click here!
{{% /alert%}}

## **Other Customizations**
 * **Action:** You can create custom actions to be executed by your widgets according to the user interaction.

>  * **Navigation Animation:** You can customize Beagle screen navigation animations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * **Navigation Animation:** You can customize the enter and exit animations on Beagle navigation.
```

 * **Beagle Activity:** You can customize the activity that will be displayed when a server-driven screen was called.
 * **Network Client:** You can customize the network client to configure in a way Beagle will make requests.
 * **Cache:** You can customize the cache to save server-driven screens.
 * **Loading and errors treatment:** You can customize the error treatment and loading of server-driven screens.

>  * **Proguard:** You can obfuscate your code using Proguard, all settings are already set internally. If you want to create custom components or change any Proguard's rules, Beagle supports it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * **Proguard:** You can optimize and obfuscate your code using Proguard, all settings are already set internally. If you want to create custom components or change any Proguard's rules, Beagle supports it.
```

>  * Action - you can create custom actions to be executed by your widgets according user intereaction
>  * Navigation Animation - you can customize Beagle screen navigation animations
>  * Beagle Activity - you can customize the activity that will be displayed when a server-driven screen was called
>  * Network Client - you can customize the network client to cunfigure the way Beagle will make requests
>  * Cache - you can customize the cache  to save the server-driven screens
>  * Loading and errors treatment - you can customize the error treatment and loading of server-driven screens
>  * Proguard - you can obfuscate your code using proguard, all settings are already set internally. If you want to create custom componenets or change any proguard's rules, we support it on Beagle.
>  * Deep Link handler - you can configure the Deep Link Handler to navigate from a server-driven screen to a native screen
>  * Image Downloader - you can customize how images will be dowloaded to be displayed by Beagle
>  * Design System - you can customize your design system to build more beatiful screens to be displayed by Beagle
>  * Serializer and Deserializer - you can customize how Beagle will serialize and deserialize
>  * Log - you can customize how the logs generated by Beagle will be displayed
>  * Widget - you can create components more specific for your project to use them to build yours server-driven screens
>  * Operations - you can create your operations to manipule context easily by your backend
>  * Analytics - you can configure an analytics to generate screen and actions reports

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
 * **Action:** You can create custom actions to be executed by your widgets according to the user interaction.
 * **Navigation Animation:** You can customize Beagle screen navigation animations.
 * **Beagle Activity:** You can customize the activity that will be displayed when a server-driven screen was called.
 * **Network Client:** You can customize the network client to configure in a way Beagle will make requests.
 * **Cache:** You can customize the cache to save server-driven screens.
 * **Loading and errors treatment:** You can customize the error treatment and loading of server-driven screens.
 * **Proguard:** You can obfuscate your code using Proguard, all settings are already set internally. If you want to create custom components or change any Proguard's rules, Beagle supports it.
 * **Deep Link handler:** You can configure the Deep Link Handler to navigate from a server-driven screen to a native screen.
 * **Image Downloader:** You can customize how images will be downloaded to be displayed by Beagle.
 * **Design System:** You can customize your design system to build more beautiful screens and Beagle will display them.
 * **Serializer and Deserializer:** You can customize how Beagle will serialize and deserialize.
 * **Log:** You can customize how the logs generated by Beagle will be displayed.
 * **Widget:** You can create more specific components for your project and you can use them to build your server-driven screens.
 * **Operations:** You can create your operations to easily manipulate context by your backend.
 * **Analytics:** You can configure the analytics to generate screen and actions reports. 
```

For example: undefined-`ext.beagle.version = "1.8.0"`

{{% alert color="warning" %}}
Remember to always check if you're using the latest version of Beagle. To see this information, you just have to pass your mouse above the version number. After that, sync your machine.
{{% /alert %}}

{{% alert color="warning" %}}
Remember to use the same version of Beagle used on your BFF to avoid possible problems
{{% /alert %}}

## Configure Beagle

Once you have finished Beagle's installation, you have to make now our tool's usage configuration, follow the steps bellow:

**Step 1:** Create a BeagleConfig class

After the update, you have to create a `BeagleConfig` class and configure your attributes, as you can see on the example below:

```kotlin
@BeagleComponent
class AppBeagleConfig : BeagleConfig {
    override val environment: Environment get() = Environment.DEBUG
    override val baseUrl: String get() = "https://myapp.server.com"
    override val isLoggingEnabled: Boolean = true
    override val cache: Cache = Cache(
        enabled = false,
        maxAge = 300,
        size = 15
    )
}
```

> <table>
>   <thead>
>     <tr>
>       <th style="text-align:left">Attribute</th>
>       <th style="text-align:left">Type</th>
>       <th style="text-align:left">Definition</th>
>     </tr>
>   </thead>
>   <tbody>
>   <tr>
>       <td style="text-align:left">environment</td>
>       <td style="text-align:left">Environment</td>
>       <td style="text-align:left">Attribute responsible for informing Beagle about the current build status
>         of the application.</td>
>     </tr>
>     <tr>
>       <td style="text-align:left">baseUrl</td>
>       <td style="text-align:left">String</td>
>       <td style="text-align:left">
>         Informs the base URL used in Beagle in the application.
>         If you are using the emulator, <a href="https://developer.android.com/studio/run/emulator-networking.html#networkaddresses"><strong>check here to define this attribute</strong></a>.
>       </td>
>     </tr>
>     <tr>
>       <td style="text-align:left">isLoggingEnabled</td>
>       <td style="text-align:left">Boolean</td>
>       <td style="text-align:left">Attribute that enables or disables all logs that Beagle generates.</td>
>     </tr>
>     <tr>
>       <td style="text-align:left">cache</td>
>       <td style="text-align:left">Cache</td>
>       <td style="text-align:left">Object responsible for managing the cache of Beagle requests.</td>
>     </tr>
>   </tbody>
> </table>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| **Attribute** | **Type** | **Definition** |
| :----------- | :------ | :------ |
| environment | Environment | Attribute responsible for informing Beagle about the current build status of the application. |
| baseUrl | String | Informs the base URL used in Beagle in the application. If you are using the emulator, [**check here to define this attribute**](https://developer.android.com/studio/run/emulator-networking.html#networkaddresses)  |
| isLoggingEnabled | Boolean | Attribute that enables or disables all logs that Beagle generates.|
| cache	| Cache	| Object responsible for managing the cache of Beagle requests. |
```
